[Music]
hello this is chef john from food wishes
comm with falafel
that's right falafel is one of those
rare foods like french fries and pizza
that pretty much everybody loves in fact
when i meet someone that doesn't like
falafel i have to admit I'm a little
suspicious I mean what's not to like
about this crispy deep-fried chickpea
fritter and well I don't think there's
much danger in this video
putting your friendly local neighborhood
falafel stand out of business this
really did come out quite well and I
think you're gonna be surprised how easy
it is so let's go ahead and get started
with the star of the show garbanzo beans
also known as chickpeas or is my family
called them grown up chichi beans and
for the amount I make it I'm gonna use
one generous cup of dried garbanzo beans
and check them out they have a very cool
appearance they look like a little
shriveled up let's say brains and what
we need to do is soak these before we
use them so pro tip if you want to make
this today make sure you do this step
yesterday alright because what we need
to do is cover these in cold water and
let them soak at least overnight
personally I think 24 hours is better
but overnight should be fine so like I
said well cover those with a few inches
of cold water and we'll put that into
place where there's a pretty good chance
that won't get knocked over and as long
as you've covered those with enough
water the next day they should look
something like this and then what we'll
do at this point is drain those very
very well before we transfer that into
our food processor and add the rest of
the ingredients alright a blender will
work sort of ok and yes you can make
this by hand by crushing or chopping but
that's gonna take significantly longer
so try to find a food processor I
guarantee one of your married friends
has one just borrow it for a day tell me
you're gonna make it worth your while
with falafel but anyway we're gonna go
ahead and dump in our now very well
drained beans to which I'm gonna add
some diced onion and by the way even
though this is gonna get processed I
think it mixes more evenly if you start
by cutting the onion nice and small
first so I'm gonna add in about half an
onion along with a whole bunch of minced
garlic we're also gonna need a whole
bunch of freshly chopped to tell you
parsley some people also like to use
cilantro here or a combination we're
also going to need some salt as well as
some freshly ground black pepper we're
also going to throw in a spoon of ground
cumin or cumin as I believe it's
supposed to be pronounced as well as a
little bit of ground coriander and then
we're gonna shock the world by putting
in a little pinch of cayenne as well as
a small touch of baking soda
no not powder baking
and a spoon of flour just a little not
too much okay one of the big decisions
with a falafel mix is do you want it
more bready or more beanie and I prefer
beanie so personally I don't want to put
too much flour here and then last but
not least we're gonna squeeze in a
little bit of lemon juice and that's
pretty much it and do you need to give
it a mix like this before you process it
probably not I'm not sure why I did that
but it's too late now but anyway once
all your ingredients are together we're
simply gonna process this pulsing on and
off to start of course and what we want
to end up with here is something that's
pretty finely ground but not a puree all
right we don't want to liquefy this or
turn it into a really fine paste and
with something like this it's always a
great idea about halfway through to take
a little break take off the lid take a
spatula kind of scrape everything down
off the sides give it a little mix in
case there are any large rogue chunks
refusing to get mixed in so I did that
and recommend you do the same thing and
we'll continue to blitz that until like
I said we have a very finely ground
mixture and instead of trying to think
of a very clever way to describe it let
me just show you this is what I think
you want all right very finely ground
but not pasty so we don't want to go too
far but it does have to be ground fine
enough to hold a shape because we're
gonna form these into balls and or other
shapes soon so that's looking good and
at this point we can transfer that to a
bowl and kind of press it and pack it
down and then what we want to do is
cover this and let it sit for an hour or
two before we start forming our falafel
and yes I have done these without
letting it rest and it does work but by
sticking it in the fridge for an hour -
those flavors really are gonna meld
together and it's gonna be a little
easier to work with which is never a bad
thing so I did pop mine in the fridge
for a couple hours after which we're
ready to shape and I'm just gonna make
some small balls I'm gonna use one of
these little sorbet scoops which not
only gives me the shape I want but it
also ensures these are about the same
size each and by the way one tip if you
moisten your fingers these are a lot
easier to work with in fact there's an
old saying in the falafel industry damp
hands that make smooth balls and it
really is true all right so we're gonna
form our falafel into the shape of our
choice and at that point they're ready
to fry so we're gonna cook these in 350
degrees for roughly 5 minutes and of
course that times gonna vary with your
size and shape but for the ones I did
here five minutes was just about perfect
and I'm just playing with him here you
don't have to do this I was just bored
so I gave mister but like I said we're
gonna cook those for about five minutes
at which point they should look like
this beautifully brown and crispy on the
outside oh yeah those look done so we'll
transfer those onto a rack to cool for
minutes and we'll take a bite so you can
see that gorgeous inside look at that
beautiful color and right here you can
get a real good look at that texture
inside it shouldn't be too bad it
shouldn't be too dry it should have the
texture of falafel and as you saw in our
last video I serve these with some
tahini sauce as a dip which is just a
very simple and very beautiful way to
serve them and I hear you out there
those look amazing but chef Jon I don't
have a deep fryer
there's no way I could do these well I
got some great news you don't need a
deep fryer instead of making balls just
flatten them out into patties and pan
fry them for a couple minutes per side
it works beautifully and they really do
come out just as gorgeous and as you're
about to hear just as crispy and not
only does that technique work but if
you're gonna toss yours into a PITA to
make the traditional falafel sandwich
that shape actually works better so I
threw a couple in a PITA which I
generously swiped with hummus with some
diced tomato cucumber and onion and of
course finished it with a drizzle of
tahini and that my friends for a
sandwich that was not invented in
America is incredible just one of the
all-time great fast foods of the world
and I know that's a concept it's hard
for a lot of people to grasp
healthy delicious and beautiful fast
food but anyway that's it I'm gonna go
finish the rest of that off and I really
hope this demo inspired you to give
these a try and what if it doesn't I'm
not gonna lie I'll feel awful you know
some of these puns just write themselves
but seriously I really do hope you give
these a try soon so head over to food
wishes calm for all the ingredient
amounts and more info as usual and as
always enjoy
you